\chapter{Further research}
\label{chap:furtherResearch}

It is possible to list an enormous amount of idea or further research in a field
like crypto-currencies or blockchain. But some of them more related to the work
done in this paper are listed in the following. Some of them are improvements of
the work already done but not yet ready for production, and some of them are
entirely exploratory.

% -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\section{Side-channel attack resistant implementation and improvements}

The proposed implementation into the library \texttt{secp256k1} rely on
\texttt{libgmp} for all complicated mathematical calculus and \texttt{libgmp} is
not robust against side-channel attacks, and it is normal, the library has not
been developed for that particular purpose. Therefore, another implementation
needs to take place and handle, in constant time and constant memory if
possible, the mathematical calculus part. This is a significant improvement that
can be done, or must be done, before hoping to use the module is some real case
scenario.

\subsection{Second hash function}

The current implementation use the hash function \texttt{SHA256} implemented
into the library \texttt{secp256k1} for $\Pi$ and $\Pi'$. This is not complient
with the orignial paper requirements, a other hash function must be implemented
and used for $\Pi'$.

\subsection{Paillier cryptosystem}

Two major improvements or modifications could be performed specificaly on the
Paillier cryptosystem implementation. As shown in the original paper, the
Chinese Remainder Theorem can be used to optimize the decryption. In the
standard approach, with a private key $(n, g, \lambda, \mu)$ and a ciphertext $c
\in \mathbb{Z}_{n^2}^*$ it is possible to compute the plaintext $m =
L(c^{\lambda} \mod n^2) \cdot \mu \mod n$ where $L(x) = \frac{x-1}{n}$. With the
CRT two function $L_p$ and $L_q$ are define by

\begin{ceqn}
\begin{align*}
  L_p(x) = \frac{x-1}{p} \quad \text{and} \quad L_q(x) = \frac{x-1}{q}
\end{align*}
\end{ceqn}

Decryption can, therefore, be performed with modulo $p$ and modulo $q$ and
recombining modular residues afterward:

\begin{ceqn}
\begin{align*}
  m_p = L_p(c^{p-1} \mod p^2) \ h_p \mod p \\
  m_q = L_q(c^{q-1} \mod p^2) \ h_q \mod q \\
  m = \text{CRT}(m_p, m_q) \mod pq
\end{align*}
\end{ceqn}

with precomputations

\begin{ceqn}
\begin{align*}
  h_p &= L_p(g^{p-1} \mod p^2)^{-1} \mod p \quad \text{and} \\
  h_q &= L_q(g^{q-1} \mod p^2)^{-1} \mod q
\end{align*}
\end{ceqn}

Paillier cryptosystem can be adapted to \gls{ec} cryptography as shown in the
paper \say{Trapdooring Discrete Logarithms on Elliptic Curves over Rings} by
Pascal Paillier \cite{10.1007/3-540-44448-3_44}. It is worth noting however that
the curve construction is different from the curve used to sign and so the code
base cannot necessarily be reused.

\subsection{Zero-knowledge proofs}

Non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs are a significant research field. The
article \say{From Extractable Collision Resistance to Succinct Non-interactive
Arguments of Knowledge, and Back Again} by Bitansky, Nir and Canetti, Ran and
Chiesa, Alessandro and Tromer, and Eran \cite{Bitansky:2012:ECR:2090236.2090263}
introduced the acronym zk-SNARK for zero-knowledge Succinct Non-interactive
ARgument of Knowledge that is the backbone of the Zcash protocol
\cite{cryptoeprint:2014:349}. In the recent paper \say{Bulletproofs: Efficient
Range Proofs for Confidential Transactions} \cite{cryptoeprint:2017:1066} a new
non-interactive zero-knowledge proof protocol with concise proofs and without a
trusted setup is proposed. Further research could be done to adapt the
zero-knowledge proof construction and migrate to a more generic approach, to
remember that the zero-knowledge proof construction proposed in the original
paper dates from the early 2000s and advancement has been made.


% -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\section{Hardware wallets}

Hardware wallet devices have become increasingly popular with people and
society. They promise to keep the keys safe and, at least, expose less the keys
thanks to a dedicated and controlled environment. Thus, keys can be stored
safely and, in an organization, for example, multiple hardware wallets can be
used to create a multi-signature and control the funds.

The development of this threshold library, even if it is just a 2-out-of-2
multi-signature script equivalent, can be used to create threshold hardware
wallet devices. Two hardware wallet devices can be set up together to create a
multi-user setup, or a hardware wallet device can be coupled with a phone to
secure a web-wallet.

Usually, when a new Bitcoin wallet is created, a list of words called mnemonic
is shown to the user as a backup of his wallet key. The mnemonics are between
twelve and twenty-four, and each word represents 11 bits of the initial seed
\cite{Mnemonic}, for a threshold key, it is not possible to represent all the
data in the same way given the size of the key (near 4.5 Kb). Another way to
display and transmit this information is needed to increase usability. Further
research could be done to find a better way to represent and display a threshold
key.

The master tag is not included in the \texttt{DER} schema. Is the key itself
responsible for storing this information or this information is a part of the
setup and can be stored outside? This question can be developed.

% -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\section{More generic threshold scheme}

As previously mentioned, research have been done to generalize and find an
optimal $(t, n)$-threshold in \gls{ecdsa} \cite{10.1007/BFb0052253,
10.1007/978-3-642-27954-6_20}. These papers base their work on the scheme chosen
by the implementation, so a deeper analysis could be performed to assess the
needed changes to adapt the current implementation to a generic threshold.

% -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\section{Schnorr signatures}

In the paper \say{Efficient Identification and Signatures for Smart Cards}
published in CRYPTO 1989, C.P. Schnorr propose the \say{Schnorr signature
algorithm} \cite{10.1007/0-387-34805-0_22}. The Schnorr signature is considered
the simplest digital signature scheme to be provably secure in a random oracle
model \cite{Bellare:1993:ROP:168588.168596, 10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4_33}. Thus,
Bitcoin developers and researchers have a strong interest in this specific
scheme since some years now. Schnorr signatures could greatly reduce the size of
the signature from 65 bytes (\gls{ecdsa} in \texttt{DER} format) to 40 bytes.

With the arrival of SegWit, it is now possible to have script version, thus it
is easier to introduce new \texttt{OP\_CODE} and so introduce a new signature
validation scheme. However, this will not invalidate the present work and
research because of the specific nature of its application.

Nevertheless, Schorr signatures are tipped to be the next scheme used in Bitcoin
and maybe in other crypto-currencies. Further research could be done to find a
protocol that fulfills the requirements defined for payment channels
optimization.
